Implicit feedback or events collected through instrumentation is imperative,
but again, does not tell the whole story.
Users maybe doing something constantly on your product,
but they may not actually be liking it.
For example, if you were the Nanodegree Product Manager at Udacity,
you could assume a user liked your product if they went through
the entire AI Product Manager Nanodegree course.
However, you don't know exactly what about the course they liked
or what made them stick around without gathering explicit feedback from them.
You could literally just ask them what they liked about the course, what you should do.
But it's not really a scalable from a volume perspective.
You could employ in product experiences such as surveys, ratings,
thumbs up and down prompts,
open-ended feedback models, tips, or referral programs.
The options are limitless,
but only as long as they're direct inorganic to the native because of experience.
Here are some real life examples for users to
provide product feedback without being too obstructive.
In Zendesk, end users have the ability to provide
a rating for a thumbs down or thumbs up in chat.
In Uber, general driver and ride quality could be assessed through rider stars,
tips, and a multiple choice questionnaire at the end of the ride.
In Google BigQuery, a SQL engine in UI to analyze data,
there's an open-ended feedback form for their beta products.